CLEARADM:

Clearadm is a set of scripts and a web app designed to discover and monitor 
systems in your infrastructure with an eye towards servers as well as Clearcase.

DEPENDENCIES:

In order for graphics to work you need to install GD for Perl (libgd-graph-perl
and I also installed libgd-graph3d-perl) as well as GD::Graph from cpan.

While Clearadm is designed to monitor Unix, Linux and Windows machines, it 
requires the installation of Cygwin and Cygwin's Perl package to run on Windows.
Clearagent also requires Cygwin and Cygwin's Perl.

INSTALLATION

SERVER Selection

Clearadm is a distributed system. Various components can be set up to run on
different servers. For example, the database server machine need not be the same
machine that the web component of Clearadm runs. Additionally all systems report
status through clearagent.pl by running a small agent daemon. Finally 
cleartasks.pl performs scheduled tasks and it can run on a separate server.
Generally you only use one or two servers but you have the option to distribute
the load.

CLEARADM Database

Clearadm uses a MySQL database to store information about your infrastructure.
Unpack the clearadm.tar.gz file (normally rooted in /opt/clearscm) and set up
the MySQL database by executing mysql then sourcing:

  clearadm.sql  -- Creates the database
  users.sql     -- Sets up the database users
  load.sql      -- Loads up some predefined tasks and schedules

CLEARAGENT Setup

Clearagent: This is a little agent program that receives requests from other
hosts and executes them on the host running clearagent. As such you want to have
clearagent.pl running all the time. Normally it backgrounds itself and it is
multithreaded so that it can handle multiple requests efficiently.

Clearagent components have been separated into the clearagent.tar.gz file. This
allows you to install only the clearagent portion on your servers.

Under Unix/Linux hosts there is a Sys/V init.d script under etc/init.d. 
Additionally for security concerns clearagent is run under a plain user named
clearagent. In order to set this up on a Unix/Linux host do the following as
root:

  $ export CLEARADM=/opt/clearscm/clearadm
  $ useradd -Mr clearagent
  $ chmod 777 $CLEARADM/var $CLEARADM/var/run $CLEARADM/log
  $ ln -s $CLEARADM/etc/init.d/clearagent /etc/init.d/clearagent
  $ /etc/init.d/clearagent start

You can test to see if clearagent is running properly by executing:
 
  $ $CLEARADM/clearexec.pl -host localhost
  clearexec:hostname
  <localhost>
  clearexec:exit
  $

  For Windows machines, assuming you have Cygwin installed, create a service for
  clearagent:

  $ cygrunsrv -I clearagent -p C:/Cygwin/bin/perl \
  > -a '/opt/clearscm/clearadm/clearagent.pl -nodaemon'
  $ net start clearagent

  Note that -nodaemon is used but the Windows service will handle the 
  backgrounding of clearagent. Testing clearagent is the same as for Unix/Linux.
  
CLEARADM Discovery

You can use the discover.pl script to discover machines on the network and have
them added to the clearadm database. However, until you set up clearagent on
those machines, monitoring of these systems will be limited.
  
CLEARADM Web

Clearadm Web component should be running on one server in your subnet. It is
designed to work with Apache 2 Web servers. Symlink
$CLEARADM/etc/conf.d/clearadm -> /etc/apache2/conf.d and restart Apache

CLEARADM Tasks

In additional to setting up the database, web server and installing agents on
the various machines you wish to monitor, you should run cleartasks.pl to 
perform the scheduled tasks on a periodic bases. Clearadm comes with some 
predefined tasks. You can add/develop your own. Simply run cleartasks.pl and it
will background itself, performing tasks when necessary (Should we make an 
init.d script for this? My worry is that if that gets configured on more than
one machine...)

CLEARADM Clearcase Reporting (Need to fill this out better)

Clearadm can show you where your views and vobs reside as well as provide useful
functionality like a view aging report, etc. In order to collect such 
information Clearadm needs to periodically collect information about those
Clearcase objects. Predefined scheduled tasks and alerts are set up to do this
but you must do some configuration yourself to tell Clearadm where your 
Clearcase objects reside. For example, you need to tell it where your registry
server(s) are, what regions you wish to report on as well as set other 
configuration settings as to how long to age views and vobs, etc.

